# Making the cars turn
Previously, as a kind of _proof of concept_ the cars have been able to change roads to a new destination once they reached an intersection, but they haven't actually turned before; rather _magically_ changed their position.

## Suggestion
The proposed first attempt att implementing turns was to simply change the direction of the car while its driving, i.e. making it turn instead of going forward. To test this idea we set a constant speed for the cars while they were turning, but this should be changed if the rest of the idea proves to be a good concept.

Relative to the cars current direction;
* a right turn would be a 90° turn on the y-axis
* a left turn would be a -90° turn on the y-axis
* and a 0° turn if the car is simply going straight across the intersection

## Implementation
To actually implement the turning motion we used the __parametric equation of a circle__, i.e. _x = r * cos(t), y = r * sin(t)_. We chose these equations since we want the car to follow simple standardized angles found in a (unit) circle. There isn't really much to say about these calculations other than it took a lot of time to get them right.. To make the cars appear to the right side of the road, an offset was added to the position of each car early in the project, making them all have unique coordinates and be positioned on different axes. This is all good and rational but unfortunately makes it a lot trickier when calculating the offset of the circular motions involved in a turn. Therefore, we didn't have time to complete the implementation of the turns and will have to use the constant turn-speed during the demonstration for tomorrow's final presentation.
