# Reworking velocity
Today we had a look at the functions for defining _deceleration_ for the cars. We've had working solutions for some time now, but they've largely been based on guesswork and iterative changes to get a working result.

By now, we've fixed most of the larger issues in the simulation and therefore we turn our attention to tuning the velocity, acceleration and deceleration functions. To restrict the cars' speed, so that they won't accelerate forever, we naturally set a maximum speed for the cars. This value is somewhat arbitrary but scaled to the framerate of the simulation and the relative size of the cars. Initially we tried to set some kind of max speed with numbers that we could relate to, e.g. _50 km/h_. But since the scale of the simulation is quite small, we quickly realized the need to scale that value down to something that weren't super-fast. In the end we had a suitable value for the max-speed constant, but it wasn't really related to any real world values.

## Real world references

**Now** the max speed has been reworked to correspond to actual _km/h_ values at last. Again, the max speed was chosen as 50 km/h because it seems like a reasonable max speed in a sometimes very congested and tightly connected road net. The first problem was determining the rate of frame updates by the Unity runtime. It seems like the frame-rate is approximately 60 frames/second most of the time, but to be sure we actually calculate the framerate in every iteration. The second problem was to define how long _'1 meter'_ is in the simulated environment. This was done by looking at the length of the prefabs used to render the cars. The car has an uncanny resemblance to the [Volvo 740 รก 1987](https://sv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Volvo_740), so we used the length of that car model as reference. This meter value, together with the framerate is then used to convert the speed value (expressed in km/h in the code) to the corresponding distance scaled to the relative size of the simulation.

The acceleration constant was chosen as '12 (km/h)', meaning that every second the car accelerates, it increases its speed by 12 km/h. The deceleration constant was chosen as '24 (km/h)', to make deceleration more effective than acceleration, and works by decreasing the car's speed by the deceleration constant every second.

## Braking distance
With the new deceleration constant, we also decided to rework the function for calculating the stopping distance of the car. With the new function, the stopping distance can be calculated as:
```
    distance = speed ^ 2 / (2 * deceleration)
```
